there are two main types of options on
the one side there are call options and
on the other side there are productions
both of these are linked to an
underlying asset this can be anything it
can be a stock any DF commodity or
something else buyer of a call option
has the right to buy the underlying
asset at a predetermined price therefore
his market assumption is bullish because
ideally you would like to buy the asset
for less than it's worth
a put option buyer has the right to sell
the underlying asset at a certain
predetermined price therefore his market
assumption is bearish because ideally he
would like to sell the asset for more
than it's worth and just like with
stocks you can also sell Joe or Ford
options you can either short a call
option or short a production and they
still will be linked to the same
underlying asset but if you choose to
short or sell a call option you won't
have the rights but you will have the
obligation to deliver the underlying
asset to the option buyer at a certain
predetermined price if the option buyer
wants that therefore your market
assumption would be bearish the price of
the underlying asset would rise the
option buyer would want you to sell him
the option for a lower price thus
creating a loss for the option seller a
seller of a production has the
obligation to buy the underlying asset
at the predetermined price from the
option buyer if the option buy it
chooses to use right to sell logically
the put option seller will want the
price of the underlying assets to rise
so that the option buyer won't uses
right the key difference between option
buyers and sellers is that buyers have
the right and sellers have the
obligation
if nothing buyer chooses to use his
right to buy or sell the underlying
security it is called exercising an
option if you choose to exercise this
option the setter of that exact option
will have to sell or buy the promised
chairs for the predetermined price when
it comes to exercising there are two
kinds of options American and European
style options American options can be
exercised whenever the option buyer
chooses to but European options can only
be exercised on the expiration date but
more and expiration date later
but note that exercising is not the same
as buying selling an option both the
option buyer and the seller can sue buy
or sell their options whenever they want
to
now let's get into the expiration date
different than stocks options have no
unlimited runtime they expire if the
company never goes under stocks could
theoretically be held for an unlimited
amount of time but if options aren't
profitable within a given time frame
they expire worthless options can
spanned over different time frames some
options expire weekly some expire
monthly and some even expire yearly for
each of these time frames there are
different exploration cycles strike
prices probably one of the most
important aspect of options the strike
price of an option is the certain
predetermined price that I mentioned so
off the earlier let's start the strike
prices for call options in our example
the underlying stock is trading for $100
if the strike price of our call option
is below the current trading price of
the underlying so below $100 it is
considered in the money or ITM and if
the strike price is the current trading
price or at least is very close to it
it's an at the money option or ATM and
finally if the strike price is above the
underlying trading price is considered
an out of the money option or all otm
and for put options it's just the other
way around because a put option profits
from a drop in the price
not from arrived now let's sum things up
with two examples for example we use
stock XYZ as down the line security XYZ
is trading at $75 our first option will
be the July 17th call 80 this means that
this option expires on the 17th of July
has a strike price of 80 and thus is out
of the money for this option to be
profitable it has to become an in the
money option for that to happen the
price of equality has to rise above 80
before the 17th of July so the market
assumption is clearly bullish our next
option is the October 17th route 18 this
means that this option is a production
that expires the 17th of October and has
again a strike price of 80 but this time
the option is in the money so
theoretically it already is profitable
but if this option already is in the
money when you buy it you will have to
pay more for it so that October 17th put
80 will first be profitable if the
underlying price drops under 75
therefore the market is on from this
bearish to keep track of all this as
something called an option chain an
option chain is a table displaying all
the available options and all the
relevant information here you can see an
option chain from Nasdaq the underlying
is Apple and it's trading for around one
hundred forty three dollars every row is
a newer option on the top you can see
the different expiration dates and in
the middle column next to the ticker
symbol a APL for Apple you can see the
different stripe prices for these
options the calls on the left hand side
and the puts on the right hand side the
options the yellow background other in
the money options and the ones with the
white background are out of the money
the color shift in the middle is where
the add the money options are
additionally much more information is
displayed on an option chain information
like the bid ask prices volume of an
interest and much more but more on that
in a later lesson for now I want to say
thanks for watching and to learn more
about option trading is it trade options
with me calm
you